Now I will introduce you to a variable type called a dictionary.
Dictionary A dictionary is a little bit more complicated than the other types of variables that I've
introduced you to so far.
But dictionaries are powerful.
They're used a lot.
They are a very convenient way to organize a lot of information in one variable.
You can think of a dictionary as kind of like a lookup table, where you have some key or some critical
piece of information, and that is going to unlock some other piece of information that is stored in
the same variable type.
Okay, I realize that probably sounds very vague and weird, so let's just start coding and you will
see how dictionaries work.
Okay, so I'm going to initialize a dictionary using this special keyword dict for dictionary.
You can see that as I typed this it went from black to being this kind of.
Green.
Greenish.
Bluish color.
Okay.
So now we can see D has curly brackets here.
So curly brackets are associated with dictionaries.
You have already seen that lists are associated with square brackets.
So when you see square brackets you can think about lists.
And when you see curly brackets you can think about dictionaries.
Okay.
Let me zoom back out here to something a little more readable.
So this is just a empty dictionary.
It does not contain any information.
All I've done is initialize this empty dictionary.
Okay.
So now I am going to create a key value pair.
So here I'm creating this is called a key.
And I'm calling it name.
And this is the value.
And I'm calling it Mike.
So now if we look at our dictionary again we see again curly brackets.
And now I have name and then a colon and then Mike.
Okay.
So now what can we do with this.
So now I can access this piece of information using name.
Now don't get confused here.
So.
So I inputted name in the square brackets and it outputted Mike.
So this is the key and this is the value.
Now try not to get confused about what I just said about lists with what you see here with accessing
some information from this dictionary.
When you have a list, you can access particular elements in that list using indexing like this.
However, this is not the way that you access information from a dictionary.
Okay, so it is a little bit confusing the difference between lists and dictionaries in terms of accessing
information from them.
But with a list you access using indexing and with a dictionary you have to know that the name of the
key and that will provide the, uh, that will return the name of the information associated with that
key.
Okay.
So now I'm going to create another key value pair.
And let's say age range equals uh 20 to 50.
Because I suppose my age is probably somewhere in that range.
Okay.
Now this is a string.
And this here is a list which comprises integers.
So you can see that in this dictionary we are mixing up lots of different types of variables.
Okay.
So now I have let's go back and look at this dictionary.
So now you can see this dictionary I'll zoom in a little bit.
Uh curly brackets to indicate the dictionary.
And then we have one key value pair and then separated by a comma.
And then another key value pair okay.
And you've already seen that to access one key value pair, you type name.
And then the other one was age range.
And that retrieves this information here, which is the list of integers that I associated with this
key age range okay.
So this is one way to create a dictionary.
And here we create it one key value pair at a time.
And first initializing it to an empty dictionary.
It's actually possible to initialize or to create a dictionary with just all this information in here
right off the bat.
So let's create another dictionary I'll call this.
How about Q.
And now I'm going to initialize this by starting with a curly bracket.
And then I'm going to type the key and then the value pair.
And then a comma.
And here's going to be the next one age range.
Uh and then the information there, 20 to say 60, just to give a nice broader range there.
Okay.
Notice again, maybe I'll even put this on a separate line.
So again, I am creating this dictionary or this variable in general using multiple lines of the code
space.
And that is going to allow us to basically put in comments here that will provide some more explanations
about what these different key value pairs actually mean.
Okay.
And then this is just to show you we get the same thing that I created up here with D.
So just different ways to create a dictionary.
Okay.
So how do you know all of the keys and values that are inside a dictionary.
Well you know if it's very small like this you can just look at the code and how it's defined.
But later on in the course you will see many situations where we will import dictionaries from other
libraries from other variables, and we need to know what are all the keys that are created by that
are stored in this dictionary.
Okay.
So for this we can type D dot keys like this.
So notice this very special formulation this syntax I have the name of the variable.
And then a period and then this reserved word keys.
And then open close parentheses with nothing inside it.
So we don't have anything inside.
So the name of the dictionary and then dot and then keys.
Later on in this tutorial in a couple of sections later, I'm going to start calling this a method that
is applied to an object or an instance of a class.
So all of this stuff is related to object oriented programming and classes.
Is and, you know, high level coding concepts like that.
You don't need to worry about those terms yet.
For now, you just need to focus on this concept.
So we have a variable name that we've created and then a dot and then some method or some piece of information
that we want to extract.
Okay.
So this gives us all of the keys that we that are stored inside this variable.
And there's lots of things you can do with this.
You can create for loops to access information from all the keys.
You can associate the different items with the keys and the values from the keys.
We can also extract all of the values by using a similar type of syntax, a similar formulation.
So I have d and then here just for some variety I'll use q here instead.
Okay.
So here we got the keys.
And here I'm getting the values.
And then you can see this is Mike and 2060.
This numerical list here.
Okay, so we got the keys.
We got the values.
Of course, these are associated with each other, right?
There is one key that goes with one value.
So we can also access these as pairs using a method called items.
So q items.
And now you can see this is actually really similar to just the.
Let me uh let's see just the dictionary itself.
It's all the same information.
It's still paired.
So the keys and the values.
But with dot items this actually creates a special type of Python variable called an iterable.
And we can use these in a special way in for loops and while loops.
So you will learn more about using dot items this syntax later in the Python tutorial, but I just wanted
to introduce it here.